Darkness lowered her head apologetically.
“I didn’t think about the problems down there. W-, What 
should we do, the rope I used to restrain you is a fairly 
powerful magic tool. It can’t be released halfway. Basically, 
for the next three days, you will stay…”
“You idiot! What am I gonna do!? Are you saying that for the 
next three days I’m gonna have to piss in my pants!? Oi stop 
kidding around! If that really happened to me, then I’ll make 
sure the same happens to you sometime alright!?”
Darkness showed a bashful smile, and it seemed like she 
would continue to be that way—
“Well then, I’ve had an intense urge to go to the toilet for a while now, so could you do something about this quickly?”
And I, who was tied up on the bed, flatly said this.
“…Eh?”
“Don’t eh me, you said it yourself didn’t you? That you would 
personally take care of me. Naturally, that means taking care 
of ‘down under’ too right?”
“………Eh—”
Darkness froze in place, dumbfounded.
“Anyway, hurry up and follow my order. Oi Darkness, go and 
fetch the urine bottle.”
“Eeeeehhhh-!?”
“Don’t eeeehhh me, hurry up. Geez, this ojou-sama is really 
useless. Weren’t you the one who said that in the first place? 
Now come on, hurry up and move it already.”
This wasn’t sexual harassment.
Since I couldn’t move my body, there’s no other way.
Yes, there’s no other way.
“N-N-, No—! That’s not what I meant! It’s true that I said that 
I would take care of you, but that’s not what I meant, so 
please wait!”
“I can’t wait anymore. ‘Going to bathroom when I wake up’ is 
a natural phenomenon. That said, this is something that you 
have to do everyday alright? After all, I’m not gonna force 
this job on your servants who I’ve never seen or met. Now, 
hurry it up already.”
“Uuuum…. b-but…”
Despite her self-assured declaration a moment ago, Darkness
was now bewildered.
“Ah, this is gonna get ugly, I can’t hold on any longer. How 
long are you gonna stay embarrassed? I helped you go to the
bathroom recently as well remember? I even helped you 
remove your underwear and get toilet paper. We’ve already 
known each other for such a long time, so don’t be ashamed 
now. Even if it’s just the lower half, hurry up and release the 
binds.”
As the time of nil approached, Darkness said to me in a soft 
voice.
“…It can’t be released.”
“…Huh?”
“H-, Happens to me…”
“It’s an emergency situation so stop anticipating it! Ah, 
Damnit!”
Using the only functioning mind, I reaffirmed the current situation.
I was currently tied in a rubber-like rope all the way to my 
knees, as if I had been tied by ‘bind’ magic.
It looks easy to cut at first glance, but since she said that it 
was a strong magic tool, I shouldn’t expect anything.
However, it should be possible to loosen the rope.
“Oi Darkness, with your strength it should be possible to 
make a gap in the rope. Focus on shifting the rope tying up 
the lower half of my body. That way, I should be at least be 
able to get some sweet release.
“I-, I got it, leave it to me!”
With her face flushed red, she began to pull on the rope.
While the ropes were tied tightly around my body, she 
managed to make enough of a gap to pull ‘it’ out.
“Alright, good work. Now there’s a urine bottle over there so 
bring it over.”
“… Why do you have something like this? Why exactly would 
you…”
“This is something like a NEET’s best friend. After all, there 
are times during the winter when it’s so cold that you don’t 
want to get out of bed, or it’s too bothersome to go to the 
toilet in the morning, right? At those important junctures, it’s 
a treasure.”
“Just how far are you… Well nevermind, it saved us this time. 
I’ll put it here.”
With a perplexed expression, Darkness placed the bottle next to me…
“Oi, I can’t go like this right? There’s no way I can’t go if you 
don’t pull down my underwear.”
“Ehh-!?”
This girl, what does she want me to do in this situation?
“Don’t ehh me. My hands are tied up and I can’t move my 
body you know? In the first place, weren’t you the one who 
caused this situation? It’s gonna spill at this rate, so hurry 
up!”
“E-E-E-Even if you say that-! Ah geez…”
Appearing as though she was about to cry, Darkness averted 
her gaze and stretched her hands towards me.
However, as she was pulling down my pants, she showed a 
strange expression.
“…Hm? Oi Kazuma, your pants are being pulled by something
and won’t come down. This is…”
“Sorry, it’s a physiological phenomenon that happens when 
waking up.”
“…………”
“Wa-, WAAAAHHHHH!”
“OWOWOWOOWWOWOWOW STOP! STOP! IT’S GONNA 
BREAK!”
Although I didn’t specify what it was, I completely forgot 
about how I happily sexually harassed Darkness just a 
moment ago, and began to shriek.
“What the heck are you thinking!? I almost got a class-
change in gender you know!? You better remember this, after
I get untied I’m definitely gonna make you cry!”
“I’ve already cried but… Hey Kazuma, shouldn’t we just give 
up? I mean, once Aqua comes back, we can just use her 
‘Create Water’ and ‘Purification’ skills to clean it up…”
“You want me to leak!? You want me to give up everything 
and leak!? Is that what you’re saying!? Stop saying stupid 
things and move it! This won’t work if you turn your eyes 
away! Since this is all your fault, take responsibility and look! 
Come on, hurry up!”
Darkness, who looked directly at my lower half this time, 
once again put her hands on my pants.
“Ku-, why did this happen….! All I wanted to do was to keep 
you away and protect Iris-sama…. b-but, for me – a lady of a 
noble family – to be forced to do something so precarious, 
and to be ordered to look down there… This situation isn’t too
bad, now that I think about it…”
“Oi, stop saying stupid things to yourself and move it! 
There’s no time! No, I’m done for, I can’t hold on any longer!”
“W-, Wait Kazuma, I’ll help you right now alright!? Since it’s 
come to this, we might as well get this over with quickly! Ah 
geez, if Megumin or Aqua see this…”
“No.”
Evening that day—
I’m not sure whether she went to release her daily dose of 
explosion magic, but Yunyun had carried Megumin home. In 
an exhausted state she flatly rejected me.
Around the time we returned from slaying Wolbach, she had 
become rebellious.
Even though she usually forces me to accompany her on her 
explosion walks, recently, she’s only gone with Yunyun.
“What do you mean by ‘no’? Even though, you’re always the 
first one to agree, saying that ‘I want to defeat a powerful 
enemy I’ve never seen before’, why not this time?”
Megumin, who sunk into the sofa in the living room, slightly 
turned her head to look at Aqua and Darkness preparing 
dinner in the kitchen. Then, she glanced at me, and said.
“There’s no particular reason. Geez, this man. Normally, 
you’re unwilling to work even if we force you. So why is it you
choose to accept the request immediately once Iris gets 
involved?”
What she said was unusually laudable. In a provoking 
manner, I replied.
“Oh, what’s with you? Jealous?”
But Megumin didn’t get angry like she usually would. Instead,
she looked at me straight in the eye and said.
“Yes, I’m jealous. Since all that has happened, shouldn’t you 
pay a little more attention to me?”
“Eh… Ah, right.”
Without a hint of playfulness in her expression, Megumin 
replied in a frank manner. Instead, I was the one’s whose face
felt hot with a troubled expression.
What she meant by ‘all that’ was probably the night of that 
day, where we almost crossed the line.
Rather, was she the type of person to say something like 
this?
She would usually burst out in anger or lose all composure. I 
felt that she was an unrestrained sort of person.
“Kazuma, does Iris really weigh on your mind that much?”
Replying to Megumin, who was staring at me—
“N-, No well, I just can’t help but feel worried about that girl. 
Rather than someone of the opposite gender, I worry about 
her because she – due of her position – tends to worry too 
much about how people think. As a result, she’s not allowed 
to do anything selfish, and I can’t help but get the feeling 
that she’s always lonely. So that’s why I care so much about 
my little sister.”
I might be a NEET, but I’m not a lolicon.
I only see Iris as a cute little sister.
Though, in the future when she grows up; if she tells me that 
she wants to be onii-chan’s bride, then I won’t hesitate to 
fulfill her wish.
Towards Megumin’s unexpected words, I began to talk faster, 
and worried about whether or not my face became red.
“Well but, if you really don’t want to then I’ll think of some 
other way. If we’re gonna go be bodyguards, then I want 
everyone to go. It’s a shame that I won’t be able to see Iris, 
but…”
“Let’s accept.”
Then, Megumin cut me off, and released a short sigh.
“I’m also bothered by that girl. Just now, I was feeling a bit 
jealous. That’s all.”
“O-, Oh.”
What should I say about her frank goodwill?
The edges of my ears felt really hot.
Having fallen into the clutches of a girl younger than myself, I
began to consider whether I should use ‘Freeze’ on my hot 
face. As I was pondering, Darkness and Aqua brought the 
food out from the kitchen.
“Oh you’re home Megumin. We’re having a feast tonight! …
What happened Kazuma, your face is flushed you know?”
“N-N-, Nothing happened! Right Megumin!?”
In contrast to me, whose face was flushed red, Megumin bore
a composed expression, as she showed a gentle smile to 
Darkness.
Why did she act so dignified now? Doesn’t that make me, 
who seems so uneasy, look like an idiot?
“You know, Megumin, if you came home earlier, you would 
have seen an interesting sight. When I got back, Darkness 
had Kazuma tied up in a bed, and was about to amuse herse
using him.”
“Oho?”
Hearing Aqua’s needless statements, Megumin’s expression 
seemed to twitch.
“Wait, Aqua, I didn’t plan to amuse myself using him! It’s tru
that I tied him up, but like I explained before…”
Darkness, who was carrying the plates, took a short glance a
Megumin, and hurriedly began to explain, but—
“No, if Aqua had come home any later, then Darkness was 
gonna pull down my pants. She really saved me you know?”
“Wha—!?”
As I added on, Megumin’s eye began to shine a bright 
crimson.
“…Well, Darkness is in heat all year round, and while what 
she does to whoever has no relation to me whatsoever, she’s
still the lady of a great family. That’s why I can’t approve of 
her forcing herself onto men, really—!”
“N-N-N-N-No…! It’s not like that Megumin, there are 
circumstances! Also, don’t say that I’m in heat all year 
round!”
While Darkness hurriedly explained herself, the rest of us 
already had our eyes on the food.